Does The City College of New York (CCNY) have a good computer science program for undergraduates?

I had graduated from CCNY with a Computer Science degree back in 2003 and I can say that CS program wasn't a good learning experience. Not because the professors aren't qualified, but because some of the CS professors can't teach. The ability to breakdown complex material and cover it in a class is something that professors should do because their clients are students. I often thought that I was paying for this course so the professor should put some effort in explaining the material, but instead the professor came to class and regurgitated a very complex lecture and expected students to understand it.

CCNY's computer science program is within the Grove School of Engineering. The school division is ABET accredited with all their majors, which means that this opens up more job opportunities after graduation. As for Computer Science, it is a very good field. Most computer science professors at CCNY might not seem good to students because they teach beyond the knowledge of what a student is trying to learn, but these professors are very smart people. In conclusion, the program itself is good.

It's decent. Varies as much as other programs college by college and professors by professors. Forget about transferring credits from CUNY schools to non-CUNY ones. You won't transfer all CS credits within CUNY schools either.

Yes, its ABET accredited. Most professors may seem too smart for students, but you'll benefit a lot in their classes. You also have to be motivated and interested in further programming as well as computer programs to make it further in the CS field otherwise you'll be miserable.

I teach at CUNY, but in a different department. Yes, it's a good program. It's consistently high in various rankings. However it's not as good as a lot of other comparable programs. The rankings don't reflect the fact that some of their instructors totally can't teach and treat students very badly. I would even say that an undergraduate planning to major in Comp Sci might be better off at Brooklyn College or some other CUNY campus than at CCNY.