How is city college when it comes to computer science major and physics major. Is the curriculum good?

CS is good for CCNY, professor quality varies by course. Some professors are awful, some are amazing. Uni Physics 1 and 2 has pretty bad professors, not sure about upper physics courses.

CS at city college is good but hard. Not sure about physics though.

How are the professors, good or bad? I hear they are strict.

Some professors are great, some terrible. The curriculum is pretty focused on proofs and the math side of CS. There are 3 highlight courses that encapsulate the curriculum. There is only one professor that teaches the hardest of the three and he is the best professor I ever had. Probably worth attending CCNY just for him.

The weeder classes are the theoretical and math-heavy ones. If you are curious, the classes are: discrete math, programming language paradigms, and theoretical computer science. Theoretical CS was hard but easier to pass than the others.

The CS major goes through the Grove School of Engineering and it is hard. You need to get a C or above in every math-related course, like Chemistry, Calculus, Physics, and even some English classes like Writing for Sciences or Engineering. You will not be able to pursue CS if you cannot do that. Even if you retake the failed courses, you won't be able to get in because the Grove dean is very strict. Hunter College is second best for CS from what I heard.

As an electrical engineering student, the computer science major at CCNY is a good one but very hard. A lot of requirements, lots of math and physics, and not the best professors. For the physics major, 99% of the physics professors are bad. They are not nice and do not care about students. You need to study most of the material by yourself. CCNY is known as a great college for engineering and science majors but the professors are not the best. Just do not give up and study a lot.

The physics professors are awesome. My physics 3 and quantum mechanics instructor is excellent. Other professors are really good too. Michio Kaku is a professor at CCNY, a world renowned physicist who has appeared on major media. He is a must-take for physics majors.

Physics major is good after the intro sequence which is rough.