Is City College (CCNY) seriously that bad?

It's the process of getting into the Grove School of Engineering that's the annoying part. Many people waste semester after semester in order to get in. You can only take engineering courses after you get into Grove. It honestly could take 6 years if students aren't taking summer classes. You have to take physics courses and the physics professors aren't very good.

It's super hard to get into Grove. You have to get a minimum C or better in Calc classes without any curve or homework or quizzes to supplement. It takes a lot of work.

I graduated from the Mechanical Engineering program at CCNY. The engineering school in general is difficult and challenging. I entered from high school with AP credit in Stats and Calc AB. Even with this I found the Math courses alone to be brutal. I only would get B's and C's and even retook one, but I also wasn't totally mature or disciplined. I graduated almost 10 years ago but it does seem like certain programs have gotten more refined.

Biomedical Engineering: challenging but not worth it for a terminal degree, not enough local jobs or industry connections. Most pursue premed or grad school. Civil Engineering: tough program that if you can get through deformable bodies you'll be okay. Chemical Engineering: difficult. Some supportive professors but some terrible ones that are unavoidable. Electrical Engineering: avoid unless you love the topic, lots of rough courses in sequence. Environmental Engineering: honestly seems the most balanced, you have a lot of flexibility in electives and there are job opportunities. Mechanical Engineering: challenging and balanced but does go in a lot of directions. Some professors leave a lot to be desired.

I'm a CCNY civil engineering graduate from 2019. Took me 7 years. It was brutal. A lot of professors known for being proud of passing a minority of the class. QPA requirements and C minimum to pass classes add an additional layer of difficulty. Extremely difficult to pass, nearly impossible to graduate with a good GPA. Meanwhile my wife's cousin is in Hofstra for civil engineering right now, on the dean's list breezing through classes with a B that I failed twice. But if you are able to get through it, you will be very well versed and knowledgeable. I took and passed the FE exam first try without a single minute of studying during senior year. Also the New York State Department of Transportation recruits heavily from CCNY, so getting an internship and then a job is pretty much guaranteed.

If you attend this school, you'll find that the curriculum is a bit excessive. The class itself is alright, but it's the professors who make it difficult if you got the bad one and the good professors' classes fill up quickly. I recommend always checking who's teaching and see the reviews on RateMyProfessor. My advice for those considering CCNY, especially if you're aiming for Grove, is to start at a community college in CUNY. Complete all your science and math electives there before transferring.

I went through the engineering program there. It definitely requires self-motivated learning and growth. Some professors are not good, so you have to make up for it yourself. The issue with not enough spots in classes in engineering is true. The trick was to be in the honors or Macaulay program to get priority class enrollments. I was able to cram 130 credits in and graduated in 4 years. Also helps if you had AP credits. Pretty good for no debt but looking back I would have wanted to experience a bigger school and campus life.

You get what you put in. I put a lot of effort into it for 5 years. In the end I got a solid engineering foundation, graduated with a BE in computer engineering, no student debt, and work at a FAANG company with a few internships under my belt.

The problem with CCNY is the problem with practically all CUNYs: the good part is that it lets anyone in. Because there are standards to maintain, not everyone passes. On the bright side, you can be assured that you are getting a quality education.