What is CCNY really like in terms of professors, classes, course load, and grading?

From my experience, it's all about picking the right professor. Personally, I had a lot of support from my professors. Of course some aren't as good as others. STEM major courses are a little more different. From a computer science perspective, CSC 103 and 104 are the better classes with professors. CSC 212 and 220 don't exactly have the greatest lecturers. At the 300 level you have pretty decent professors except in some classes. My friend has like a 3.7 GPA so it's decently possible for sure. However, the math and science courses offered are tougher compared to other CUNYs. If you only want to boost your GPA I recommend community college instead.

For Phys 207 and 208, professors aren't exactly the best. Pouyan is one I would avoid and Sergey is one of the decent ones. I also heard bad things about Gayen.

You have to do your own networking. Talk to classmates, set up WhatsApp groups for each class to ask questions, and brainstorm. Make set times to have study groups. As for research, all of the tenured and tenure track STEM professors are engaged in research. You can approach them and ask about their research and let them know you'd like to get involved. Tenured professors have titles like assistant professor, associate professor, professor, and distinguished professor.

Networking will be a skill that will help you in your professional life. As the saying goes, it's not what you know, but who you know. Your professional life in a STEM career will likely be about finding solutions, and knowing who to ask for help to solve for your given problem is how you'll advance in your career.

Some people will make the excuse that you're not working hard enough since it's engineering and these courses generally require a lot of rigor, but there truly are some atrocious courses at CCNY. Uni Phys 207 and 208 have been terrible for years now in terms of disorganization. You'll frequently find yourself ignoring the advice of your Professor since they do not teach according to the testing material adequately, neither does the HW match up. Instead students will share methods like the test bank in a Discord or something.

It's kind of known that e-permitting, which means taking pre-req engineering classes at community colleges like BMCC, is the method within circles in CCNY. Transfers are a lot more likely to get in. You want to be unstoppable then network to find out who's doing well and ask for advice.

Yes, but I mean mid-semester networking too. You should literally ask around in real life who's doing well and approach to ask how they're studying. Ask about Discord servers too or form study groups.